Name: Bernard De Baets
Unit: KERMIT
Bio: Bernard De Baetsis a Senior Full Professor and Head of Department at the Department of Data Analysis and Mathematical Modelling of the Faculty of Bioscience Engineering of Ghent University. He is leading the Knowledge-based Systems research unit KERMIT. As a trained mathematician, computer scientist and knowledge engineer, he has developed a passion for multi- and interdisciplinary research. While being deeply involved in fundamental research in three interlaced research threads (knowledge-based, predictive and spatio-temporal modelling), he also aims at innovative applications in the applied biological sciences. He is a prolific writer, with a bibliography comprising over 550 peer-reviewed journal papers (bestowed with various best paper awards), accumulating close to 25000 Google scholar citations. He actively serves the research community, in particular as editor-in-chief of Fuzzy Sets and Systems and as a member of the editorial board of several other journals.
Bernard is an Honorary Professor of Budapest Tech (Hungary), a Doctor Honoris Causa of the University of Turku (Finland), a Profesor Invitado of the Universidad Central “Marta Abreu” de las Villas (Cuba) and a Professor Extraordinarius of the University of South Africa. He is a fellow of IFSA (International Fuzzy Systems Association), a recipient of the EUSFLAT Scientific Excellence Award and a nominee of the Ghent University Prometheus Award for Research.
Keywords: Fuzzy Set theory, Machine Learning, Cellular Automata
Publications: B. De Baets, H. De Meyer, B. De Schuymer and S. Jenei, Cyclic evaluation of transitivity of reciprocal relations, Social Choice and Welfare 26 (2006), 217-238. J. Peters,B. De Baets, R. Samson, N. Verhoest, S. Degroeve, P. De Decker and W. Huybrechts, Random forests as a tool for predictive ecohydrological modelling, Ecological Modelling 207 (2007), 304-318. E. Van Broekhoven andB. De Baets, Only smooth rule bases can generate monotone Mamdani-Assilian models under COG defuzzification, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems 17 (2009), 1157-1174. J. Van den Bossche,B. De Baets, J. Verwaeren, D. Botteldooren and J. Theunis, Development and evaluation of land use regression models for black carbon based on bicycle and pedestrian measurements in the urban environment, Environmental Modelling and Software 99 (2018), 58-69. W. Bolt, J.M. Baetens andB. De Baets, Identification of Cellular Automata based on incomplete observations with bounded time gaps, IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics 50 (2020), 971-984 B. Nguyen, C. Morell andB. De Baets, Scalable large-margin distance metric learning using stochastic gradient descent, IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics 50 (2020), 1072-1083.
