Name: Dick Botteldooren
Unit: wireless, acoustics, environment & expert systems (WAVES)
Bio: Dick Botteldoorenis a full professor at Ghent University where he leads research on Acoustics and teaches a variety of courses related to sound and computational methods.Dick Botteldooren obtained an MSc degree in Electronic Engineering in 1986 from Ghent University and a PhD in Applied Science in 1990 from Ghent University. In 1992 he became interested in acoustics and in particular environmental sound and obtained a post-doctoral fellowship with the Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research. In April 1993, he became a part-time professor at Ghent University. Since October 2000 he is a full-time professor in acoustics. Between 2004 and 2013 he was the Editor-in-Chief of Acta Acustica united with Acustica, the journal of the European Acoustics Association. Until 2018 he was the president of the Belgian Acoustical Society; currently he is I-INCE vice-president for Europe and Africa. He is a fellow of the Acoustical Society of America.Dick Botteldooren has made research contributions in the field of acoustic modeling, noise mapping, environmental sensor networks, computational intelligence, human-inspired machine listening, biomonitoring with focus on EEG, health impacts of sound, urban sound planning, soundscapes, and noise policy support. This work was reported in 140 journal publications and several hundred conference contributions. Based on his expertise he was an advisor for national and international health councils, and noise policy makers.
Keywords: Machine listening, sensor networks, urban sound, human hearing
Publications: Botteldooren, D., & Verkeyn, A. (2002). Fuzzy models for accumulation of reported community noise annoyance from combined sources. The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 112(4), 1496-1508. Oldoni, D., De Coensel, B., Rademaker, M., De Baets, B., & Botteldooren, D. (2010, July). Context-dependent environmental sound monitoring using SOM coupled with LEGION. In Neural Networks (IJCNN), The 2010 International Joint Conference on (pp. 1-8). IEEE. Verkeyn, A., Botteldooren, D., & De Baets, B. (2011). Genetic learning of fuzzy integrals accumulating human-reported environmental stress. Applied Soft Computing, 11(1), 305-314. Boes, M., Oldoni, D., De Coensel, B., & Botteldooren, D. (2012). Attention-driven auditory stream segregation using a SOM coupled with an excitatory-inhibitory ANN. In IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems (FUZZ-IEEE)/International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN)/IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation (IEEE-CEC)/IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence (IEEE-WCCI) (pp. 516-523). IEEE. Boes, M., Filipan, K., De Coensel, B., & Botteldooren, D. (2018). Machine Listening for Park Soundscape Quality Assessment. Acta Acustica united with Acustica, 104(1), 121-130.
