Name: Dieter De Witte
Unit: Internet Technology and Data Science Lab (IDLab)
Bio: Prof. dr. ir. Dieter De Wittereceived his master’s degree in Engineering Physics from Ghent University (Belgium) in 2008. His PhD focused on Big Data technologies and FAIR data for the life sciences domain. He worked as an AI consultant and team lead with Telenet and Ordina before rejoining university.Since 2021, Dieter holds a FED-tWIN mandate (Belspo) and devotes 50% of his time to the Royal Museums of Fine Arts Belgium (RMFAB) in Brussels. At RMFAB, he actively participates in the strategic roadmap for replacing the existing digital infrastructure with a more data-driven and FAIR-compliant one. The other 50% he works as a professor in the team of prof. Steven Verstockt which focuses on applied AI projects in heritage, mental healthcare and education.On the technical level Dieter is interested in FAIR data publication, AI interaction with and enrichment of heritage collections. He also works on innovative AI applications typically combining a wide range of AI building blocks. Technologies include but are not limited to IIIF, multimodal algorithms, image segmentation, pose estimation, LLMs, RAG, SPARQL, etc.
Keywords: AI enrichment, FAIR, Intuitive querying, Image Retrieval, Human-in-the-loop AI
Publications: Dieter De Witte. 2018. “Distributed Pattern Mining and Data Publication in Life Sciences Using Big Data Technologies.” Ghent, Belgium Ravi Khatri, Kenzo Milleville, Steven. Verstockt, Karine Lasaracina, Lies Van de Cappelle and Dieter Witte. 2024. “Pose-based Image Retrieval and Enrichment in the RMFAB,” DHB2024 Kenzo Milleville. 2024. “Unlocking the potential of digital archives via artificial intelligence.” Ghent, Belgium Sven Lieber, Ann Van Camp, Dieter De Witte, et al. 2023. “MetaBelgica Project : A Linked Data Infrastructure between Federal Scientific Institutes in Belgium.” In Proceedings of the Conference on Research Data Infrastructure. TIB Open Publishing Ali D. 2023. “AI-based methods to enrich, geolocalize, and rephotograph historical newspaper photos.” Ghent, Belgium.
