Name: Erik Mannens
Unit: Internet Technology and Data Science Lab (IDLab)
Bio: Erik Mannenis Research Valorisation Director @ imec & Professor @ Ghent University - IDLab since 2005 where he has successfully managed +50 projects. He received his PhD degree in Computer Science Engineering (2011) at UGent, his Master’s degree in Computer Science (1995) at K.U. Leuven University, and his Master’s degree in Electro-Mechanical Engineering (1992) at KAHO Ghent.He currently heads the Data Science team of +50 Semantic Technologies & Artificial Intelligence Researchers. The primary objective of our Data Science team is to advance research and technology in the sweet spot of the fusion of Semantics & Artificial Intelligence and to widely apply this research in large-scale use cases. The Data Science team has in the end three research aims: 1) to examine the Web and understand its impact on contemporary society, 2) to explore novel changes that the Web enables in the way we run our lives, and 3) to develop Web innovations and enhancements to the way that the Web operates in the future. The Data Science team is also committed to the Open Source, Open Access and Open Knowledge movements.Further info:LinkedIn
Keywords: Semantic Intelligence, Big Data Analytics, Semantic Web, Linked Data, Data Interoperability
Publications: Heyvaert, Pieter, Anastasia Dimou, Ben De Meester, Tom Seymoens, Aron-Levi Herregodts, Ruben Verborgh, Dimitri Schuurman, and Erik Mannens. 2018. “Specification and Implementation of Mapping Rule Visualization and Editing : MapVOWL and the RMLEditor.” Journal of Web Semantics 49: 31–50. Bonte, Pieter, Femke Ongenae, Femke De Backere, Jeroen Schaballie, Dörthe Arndt, Stijn Verstichel, Erik Mannens, Rik Van de Walle, and Filip De Turck. 2017. “The MASSIF Platform : a Modular and Semantic Platform for the Development of Flexible IoT Services.” Knowledge and Information Systems 51 (1): 89–126. Vander Sande, Miel, Ruben Verborgh, Anastasia Dimou, Pieter Colpaert, and Erik Mannens. 2016. “Hypermedia-based Discovery for Source Selection Using Low-cost Linked Data Interfaces.” International Journal on Semantic Web and Information Systems 12 (3): 79–110. Verborgh, Ruben, Miel Vander Sande, Pieter Colpaert, Sam Coppens, Erik Mannens, and Rik Van de Walle. 2014. “Web-scale Querying Through Linked Data Fragments.” In 7th Workshop on Linked Data on the Web, Proceedings. Dimou, Anastasia, Miel Vander Sande, Pieter Colpaert, Ruben Verborgh, Erik Mannens, and Rik Van de Walle. 2014. “RML: a Generic Language for Integrated RDF Mappings of Heterogeneous Data.” In 7th Workshop on Linked Data on the Web, Proceedings.
