Name: Ruben Verborgh
Unit: Internet Technology and Data Science Lab (IDLab)
Bio: Ruben Verborghis a professor of Semantic Web technology at Ghent University – imec and a research affiliate at the Decentralized Information Group at MIT. He aims to build a more intelligent generation of clients for a decentralized Web at the intersection of Linked Data and hypermedia-driven Web APIs. Through the creation of Linked Data Fragments, he introduced a new paradigm for query execution at Web-scale. He has co-authored two books on Linked Data, and contributed to more than 250 publications for international conferences and journals on Web-related topics.Professor of Semantic Web Technology Ghent University 2017–now
 I’m an assistant professor with a focus on research, contributing to the (re-)decentralization of the Web using Semantic Web technologies. I lead our Linked Data Fragments activities, and supervise several PhD students working on Semantic Web topics.Research Affiliate Massachusetts Institute of Technology 2018–now
I am regularly visiting the Decentralized Information Group to collaborate with Tim Berners-Lee on re-decentralizing the Web through Linked Data technologies. We are building the Solid platform to enable a new generation of Web applications that let you keep ownership of your own data.Postdoctoral Fellow Research Foundation Flanders 2015–nowMore info
Keywords: decentralization, Linked Data, querying, data integration, Semantic Web
Publications: R. Verborgh, M. Vander Sande, O. Hartig, J. Van Herwegen, L. De Vocht, B. De Meester, G. Haesendonck, and P. Colpaert, “Triple Pattern Fragments: a Low-cost Knowledge Graph Interface for the Web,” Journal of Web Semantics, vol. 37–38, pp. 184–206, Mar. 2016. R. Verborgh and M. Dumontier, “A Web API ecosystem through feature-based reuse,” Internet Computing, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 29–37, May 2018. R. Verborgh and J. De Roo, “Drawing Conclusions from Linked Data on the Web,” IEEE Software, vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 23–27, May 2015. S. Mayer, R. Verborgh, M. Kovatsch, and F. Mattern, “Smart Configuration of Smart Environments,” IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering, vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 1247–1255, Jul. 2016. S. Capadisli, A. Guy, R. Verborgh, C. Lange, S. Auer, and T. Berners-Lee, “Decentralised Authoring, Annotations and Notifications for a Read–Write Web with dokieli,” in Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Web Engineering, 2017, vol. 10360, pp. 469–481.
