Name: Tijl De Bie
Unit: Artificial Intelligence and Data Analytics (AIDA)
Bio: Tijl De Bieis a Senior Full Professor (Gewoon Hoogleraar) at the University of Ghent. Before moving to Ghent in 2015, he worked and studied at the KU Leuven (where he obtained his PhD in machine learning 2005), U.C. Berkeley, U.C. Davis, the University of Southampton, and the University of Bristol. He has conducted research on the foundations of machine learning and data science, as well as on applications in bioinformatics, music informatics, online news media analysis, computational social sciences, and HR and the labour market. His research has been internationally recognized with prestigious grants and awards, such as through an FWO Odysseus Group I grant, and three grants from the European Research Council (an ERC Consolidator Grant, an ERC Proof of Concept Grant, and an ERC Advanced Grant). He co-leads the AI and Data Analytics (AIDA) research group within IDLab-ELIS at Ghent University.
Keywords: Foundations of Data Science, Human-Centric Data Science, Exploratory Data Analysis, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence
Publications: Lanckriet, Gert RG, Tijl De Bie, Nello Cristianini, Michael I. Jordan, and William Stafford Noble. “A statistical framework for genomic data fusion.” Bioinformatics 20, no. 16 (2004): 2626-2635. Lampos, Vasileios, Tijl De Bie, and Nello Cristianini. “Flu detector-tracking epidemics on Twitter.” In Joint European conference on machine learning and knowledge discovery in databases, pp. 599-602. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2010. De Bie, Tijl, Léon-Charles Tranchevent, Liesbeth MM Van Oeffelen, and Yves Moreau. “Kernel-based data fusion for gene prioritization.” Bioinformatics 23, no. 13 (2007): i125-i132. De Bie, Tijl. “Maximum entropy models and subjective interestingness: an application to tiles in binary databases.” Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 23, no. 3 (2011): 407-446. Bie, Tijl D., and Nello Cristianini. “Convex methods for transduction.” In Advances in neural information processing systems, pp. 73-80. 2004.
